1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth; and unto them were sons born after the flood.
2 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
3 And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarmah.
4 And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Dodanim.
5 By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided into their lands, every one after his own tongue, according to their families, into their nations.
6 And the sons of Ham: Cush and Mizraim, and Put and Canaan.
7 And the sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah, and Sabtah and Raamah and Sabtechah; and the sons of Raamah: Sheba, and Dedan.
8 And Cush begot Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one on the earth.
9 He was a mighty hunter before the Lord ; therefore it is said, “Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the Lord .”
10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
11 Out of that land he went forth to Assyria, and built Nineveh and the city Rehoboth, and Calah,
12 and Resen between Nineveh and Calah; the same is a great city.
13 And Mizraim begot Ludim and Anamim and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim
14 and Pathrusim and Casluhim (out of whom came the Philistines) and Caphtorim.
15 And Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn, and Heth;
16 and the Jebusite and the Amorite, and the Girgashite
17 and the Hivite, and the Arkite and the Sinite,
18 and the Arvadite and the Zemarite and the Hamathite; and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad.
19 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; and as thou goest unto Sodom and Gomorrah, and Admah and Zeboiim, even unto Lasha.
20 These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their countries and in their nations.
21 Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.
22 The children of Shem: Elam and Asshur, and Arphaxad and Lud and Aram.
23 And the children of Aram: Uz and Hul, and Gether and Mash.
24 And Arphaxad begot Salah, and Salah begot Eber.
25 And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg, for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother’s name was Joktan.
26 And Joktan begot Almodad and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth and Jerah,
27 and Hadoram and Uzal and Diklah,
28 and Obal and Abimael and Sheba,
29 and Ophir and Havilah and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
30 And their dwelling was from Mesha as thou goest unto Sephar, a mount of the east.
31 These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, according to their nations.
32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, in their nations; and by these were the nations divided on the earth after the flood.